Add user guide explaining indexing and searching (#296)
opensearch-project/opensearch-jvector: docs/USER_GUIDE.md

            "price": {
              "gte": 100,
              "lte": 500
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
'
```

**Post-filtering:**

```bash
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "knn": {
      "vector_field": {
        "vector": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.768],
        "k": 50
      }
    }
  },
  "post_filter": {
    "term": {
      "category": "electronics"
    }
  }
}
'
```

### Advanced Search

#### Hybrid Search (Vector + Text)

To combine vector similarity search with traditional text search, OpenSearch provides a dedicated [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) plugin. It exposes features to properly normalize and combine scores from different query types (vector and lexical) to produce meaningful scoring results.

The  [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) plugin has tight integration with the  [k-NN](https://docs.opensearch.org/latest/vector-search/api/knn/) plugin and does not support `opensearch-jvector` plugin at the moment. There are ongoing efforts to address this gap.

> 

Reviewer: We should remove the rest of this section for now (we'll bring it back when `neural-search` plugin compatible with `opensearch-jvector` is available), we are pointing users towards features and benefits we cannot offer at the moment.

Author: @reta addressed in https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-jvector/pull/296/commits/5c9e486cebeb511261ad94b8c802ab50b62c96d1

# OpenSearch JVector Plugin - User Guide

- [Overview](#overview)
  - [What is JVector?](#what-is-jvector)
  - [Why Use JVector?](#why-use-jvector)
  - [Key Features](#key-features)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Verify Installation](#verify-installation)
  - [Your First Index and Search](#your-first-index-and-search)
- [Index Management](#index-management)
  - [Creating Indices](#creating-indices)
  - [Index Configuration](#index-configuration)
  - [Indexing Data](#indexing-data)
  - [Force Merge Operations](#force-merge-operations)
- [Search Operations](#search-operations)
  - [Basic k-NN Search](#basic-k-nn-search)
  - [Search Parameters](#search-parameters)
  - [Advanced Search](#advanced-search)
  - [Performance Monitoring](#performance-monitoring)
- [Performance Optimization](#performance-optimization)
  - [Index-time Optimization](#index-time-optimization)
  - [Query-time Optimization](#query-time-optimization)
  - [Memory Management](#memory-management)
  - [Benchmarking](#benchmarking)

---

## Overview

### What is JVector?

> OpenSearch JVector Plugin is a pure Java implementation of vector similarity search that enables you to perform approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) search on billions of documents. It leverages the [JVector library](https://github.com/jbellis/jvector) (as referenced in the [source code](../src/main/java/org/opensearch/knn/index/codec/jvector/JVector.java#L21)) to provide high-performance vector search capabilities directly within OpenSearch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch JVector Plugin is an OpenSearch plugin that enables you to perform approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) search on billions of documents. It leverages the [JVector library](https://github.com/jbellis/jvector) as one of its engines (as referenced in the [source code](../src/main/java/org/opensearch/knn/index/codec/jvector/JVector.java#L21)) to provide high-performance vector search capabilities directly within OpenSearch.
```

Reviewer 3: Re the statement "OpenSearch JVector Plugin is an OpenSearch plugin ", wouldn't we want to mention it is a pure java implementation?

Reviewer 2: The plugin is java based, there is nothing unique about that part. The plugin does not have any implementations of vector similarity search as we rely on the underlying Jvector library. 

I think you are trying to capture that JVector library which contains vector similarity search is a pure java implementation, which is fine to mention. However, that is a detail of the JVector library and not the plugin.

### Why Use JVector?

**High-Level Benefits:**
- **Scalable**: Handle billions of documents across thousands of dimensions using DiskANN
- **Fast**: Pure Java implementation with minimal overhead
- **Lightweight**: Self-contained, no native dependencies, builds in seconds

**Key Features:**
1. **DiskANN Implementation**: Pure Java ANN search optimized for disk-based operations and RAM-constrained environments
2. **Thread-Safe Indexing**: Concurrent writes with excellent scalability
3. **Incremental Merges**: Update large graphs without full rebuilds for faster updates
4. **Product Quantization (PQ)**: Compress vectors to significantly reduce memory usage with quantization refinement during merge
5. **SIMD Support**: Hardware-accelerated vector operations

> 6. **Fused ADC**: Advanced distance computation optimizations

Reviewer 2: We don't have # 6 yet. Please remove

---

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Java**: JDK 21 or later (required by OpenSearch 3.x)
- **Memory**: Sufficient RAM for your vector dataset (see [Memory Management](#memory-management))

> - **Disk Space**: Adequate storage for indices and vector data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Disk Space**: Adequate storage for indices and vector data with some buffer for merging segments
```

### Installation

#### Installing OpenSearch

If you don't have OpenSearch installed yet, choose one of these options:

**Option A: Download and Install OpenSearch**

> Download OpenSearch 3.3.2 or later from the [OpenSearch downloads page](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html). Choose the distribution appropriate for your platform and OS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Download OpenSearch 3.5.0 or later from the [OpenSearch downloads page](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html). Choose the distribution appropriate for your platform and OS.
```

Example for macOS:

```bash

> # Download OpenSearch 3.3.2 (example for macOS)

Reviewer 2: update to opensearch 3.5.0 or latest here, and across the doc.

{
  "my_vector": [0.2, 0.3, 0.4, ..., 0.129],
  "title": "Second document"
}
'

# Refresh the index
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-vector-index/_refresh"
```

#### Step 3: Search for Similar Vectors

```bash
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-vector-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "size": 5,
  "query": {
    "knn": {
      "my_vector": {
        "vector": [0.15, 0.25, 0.35, ..., 0.128],
        "k": 5
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

**Congratulations!** You've created your first JVector index and performed a similarity search.

---

## Index Management

### Creating Indices

#### Basic Index Creation

The simplest way to create a JVector index:

```bash
curl -X PUT "https://localhost:9200/basic-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "settings": {
    "index.knn": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "vector_field": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "l2"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

#### Index with Multiple Vector Fields

> You can have multiple vector fields in a single index:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can have multiple vector fields in a single index along with non-vector fields:
```

```bash
curl -X PUT "https://localhost:9200/multi-vector-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "settings": {
    "index.knn": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "image_vector": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 512,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "l2"
        }
      },
      "text_vector": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "cosinesimil"
        }
      },
      "title": {
        "type": "text"
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

### Index Configuration

#### DiskANN Method Parameters

The `disk_ann` method supports several parameters:

> | Parameter | Type | Default | Description |

Reviewer 2: split this table into 2: 
index build time: m, ef_construction

search time: ef_search , k

|-----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `m` | integer | 16 | Maximum number of connections per node in the graph. Higher values = better recall but more memory |
| `ef_construction` | integer | 100 | Size of the dynamic candidate list during index construction. Higher values = better quality but slower indexing |
| `ef_search` | integer | 100 | Size of the dynamic candidate list during search. Can be overridden at query time |

**Example with custom parameters:**

```bash
curl -X PUT "https://localhost:9200/optimized-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "settings": {
    "index.knn": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "vector_field": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "l2",
          "parameters": {
            "m": 32,
            "ef_construction": 200,

>             "ef_search": 150

Reviewer 2: ef_search not needed during index build

**Example with cosine similarity:**

```bash
curl -X PUT "https://localhost:9200/text-embeddings" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "settings": {
    "index.knn": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "text_vector": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "cosinesimil",
          "parameters": {
            "m": 16,
            "ef_construction": 100
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

#### Quantization Options

JVector supports Product Quantization (PQ) for memory efficiency:

**Product Quantization (PQ):**

```bash
curl -X PUT "https://localhost:9200/pq-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "settings": {
    "index.knn": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "vector_field": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "l2",
          "parameters": {
            "m": 16,
            "ef_construction": 100,

>             "compression": {

Reviewer 2: can you verify if the "compression" section works? 

A simple way is to start a local cluster with `./gradlew run` and try to run this command against the cluster.

Reviewer 3: `compression` didn't work
`"advanced.num_pq_subspaces": 96` works

Reviewer 2: Lets remove compression then. 

Regarding, advanced.num_pq_subspaces - the default value is set based on vector dimensions. Could you reference this method in code `getDefaultNumberOfSubspacesPerVector(int originalDimension)` and add a small table with default values / vector dimension mapping.

### Why Use JVector?

**High-Level Benefits:**
- **Scalable**: Handle billions of documents across thousands of dimensions using DiskANN
- **Fast**: Pure Java implementation with minimal overhead
- **Lightweight**: Self-contained, no native dependencies, builds in seconds

**Key Features:**
1. **DiskANN Implementation**: Pure Java ANN search optimized for disk-based operations and RAM-constrained environments
2. **Thread-Safe Indexing**: Concurrent writes with excellent scalability
3. **Incremental Merges**: Update large graphs without full rebuilds for faster updates
4. **Product Quantization (PQ)**: Compress vectors to significantly reduce memory usage with quantization refinement during merge
5. **SIMD Support**: Hardware-accelerated vector operations
6. **Fused ADC**: Advanced distance computation optimizations

> 7. **Cassandra Compatibility**: Easy data transfer between Cassandra and OpenSearch

Reviewer: How exactly the transfer becomes easy? Do we actually have a procedure for that? If not, we better remove this claim I think.

### Prerequisites

- **Java**: JDK 21 or later (required by OpenSearch 3.x)
- **Memory**: Sufficient RAM for your vector dataset (see [Memory Management](#memory-management))
- **Disk Space**: Adequate storage for indices and vector data

### Installation

#### Installing OpenSearch

If you don't have OpenSearch installed yet, choose one of these options:

**Option A: Download and Install OpenSearch**

Download OpenSearch 3.3.2 or later from the [OpenSearch downloads page](https://opensearch.org/downloads.html). Choose the distribution appropriate for your platform and OS.

Example for macOS:

```bash
# Download OpenSearch 3.3.2 (example for macOS)
curl -O https://artifacts.opensearch.org/releases/bundle/opensearch/3.3.2/opensearch-3.3.2-darwin-x64.tar.gz

# Extract
tar -xzf opensearch-3.3.2-darwin-x64.tar.gz
cd opensearch-3.3.2

# Start OpenSearch
./bin/opensearch
```

**Option B: Use Docker**

```bash
docker pull opensearchproject/opensearch:3.3.2
docker run -d -p 9200:9200 -p 9600:9600 \
  -e "discovery.type=single-node" \
  -e "OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=YourStrongPassword123!" \
  opensearchproject/opensearch:3.3.2
```

**Verify OpenSearch is Running:**

```bash

> curl http://localhost:9200

Reviewer: I believe all distributions come with `securtiy` plugin:

```suggestion
curl https://localhost:9200
```

# Should return cluster information
```

#### Installing JVector Plugin

**Important:** JVector plugin replaces the official OpenSearch k-NN plugin. You must remove the following plugins before installing JVector:
- `opensearch-knn` (official k-NN plugin)
- `opensearch-neural-search` (depends on opensearch-knn)

#### Option 1: Install from Maven Repository

```bash
# Navigate to your OpenSearch directory
cd /path/to/opensearch

# Remove existing k-NN and neural-search plugins (if installed)
bin/opensearch-plugin remove opensearch-neural-search
bin/opensearch-plugin remove opensearch-knn

> # Download and install JVector plugin

Reviewer: We need the story for `opensearch-neural-search` replacement here

bin/opensearch-plugin install file://`pwd`/opensearch-jvector-plugin.zip

# Start OpenSearch
bin/opensearch
```

#### Option 2: Docker Installation with JVector Plugin

Create a `Dockerfile`:

```dockerfile
FROM opensearchproject/opensearch:3.3.2

# Remove default KNN plugin
RUN /usr/share/opensearch/bin/opensearch-plugin remove opensearch-neural-search && \
    /usr/share/opensearch/bin/opensearch-plugin remove opensearch-knn

# Install JVector plugin
RUN curl https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/opensearch/plugin/opensearch-jvector-plugin/3.3.2.0/opensearch-jvector-plugin-3.3.2.0.zip -o opensearch-jvector-plugin.zip && \
    /usr/share/opensearch/bin/opensearch-plugin install --batch file://`pwd`/opensearch-jvector-plugin.zip
```

Build and run:

```bash
docker build -t opensearch-jvector .
docker run -p 9200:9200 -p 9600:9600 \
  -e "discovery.type=single-node" \
  -e "OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=YourStrongPassword123!" \
  opensearch-jvector
```

### Verify Installation

Check that the plugin is installed:

```bash

> # For local development (with security disabled)

Reviewer: Let's keep only production flows (`https://`), if users want to disable security, it is not in the scope of this tutorial

curl -X GET "http://localhost:9200/_cat/plugins?v"

# For production (with security enabled - default)
curl -X GET "https://localhost:9200/_cat/plugins?v" \

>   -u admin:admin \

Reviewer: Let's refer to the password used before (for consistency):

```suggestion
  -u admin:YourStrongPassword123! \
```

  --insecure
```

Expected output should include:

```
name       component           version
node-1     opensearch-jvector  3.3.2.0
```

> **Note:** Replace `admin:admin` with your actual credentials. Use `--insecure` only for development with self-signed certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Replace `admin:YourStrongPassword123!` with your actual credentials. Use `--insecure` only for development with self-signed certificates.
```

### Your First Index and Search

#### Step 1: Create an Index

Create an index with a 128-dimensional vector field:

```bash

> curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/my-vector-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X PUT "https://localhost:9200/my-vector-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "settings": {
    "index": {
      "knn": true,
      "number_of_shards": 1,
      "number_of_replicas": 0
    }
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "my_vector": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 128,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "l2",
          "parameters": {
            "m": 16,
            "ef_construction": 100
          }
        }
      },
      "title": {
        "type": "text"
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

#### Step 2: Index Some Documents

```bash
# Index document 1

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-vector-index/_doc/1" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-vector-index/_doc/1" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "my_vector": [0.1, 0.2, 0.3, ..., 0.128],
  "title": "First document"
}
'

# Index document 2

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-vector-index/_doc/2" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://llocalhost:9200/my-vector-index/_doc/2" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "my_vector": [0.2, 0.3, 0.4, ..., 0.129],
  "title": "Second document"
}
'

# Refresh the index

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-vector-index/_refresh"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://llocalhost:9200/my-vector-index/_refresh"
```

```

#### Step 3: Search for Similar Vectors

```bash

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-vector-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://llocalhost:9200/my-vector-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "size": 5,
  "query": {
    "knn": {
      "my_vector": {
        "vector": [0.15, 0.25, 0.35, ..., 0.128],
        "k": 5
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

**Congratulations!** You've created your first JVector index and performed a similarity search.

---

## Index Management

### Creating Indices

#### Basic Index Creation

The simplest way to create a JVector index:

```bash

> curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/basic-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X PUT "https://llocalhost:9200/basic-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "settings": {
    "index.knn": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "vector_field": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "l2"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

#### Index with Multiple Vector Fields

You can have multiple vector fields in a single index:

```bash

> curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/multi-vector-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X PUT "https://llocalhost:9200/multi-vector-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

    "index.knn": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "image_vector": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 512,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "l2"
        }
      },
      "text_vector": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "cosinesimil"
        }
      },
      "title": {
        "type": "text"
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

### Index Configuration

#### DiskANN Method Parameters

The `disk_ann` method supports several parameters:

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
|-----------|------|---------|-------------|
| `m` | integer | 16 | Maximum number of connections per node in the graph. Higher values = better recall but more memory |
| `ef_construction` | integer | 100 | Size of the dynamic candidate list during index construction. Higher values = better quality but slower indexing |
| `ef_search` | integer | 100 | Size of the dynamic candidate list during search. Can be overridden at query time |

**Example with custom parameters:**

```bash

> curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/optimized-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X PUT "https://llocalhost:9200/optimized-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "settings": {
    "index.knn": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "vector_field": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "l2",
          "parameters": {
            "m": 32,
            "ef_construction": 200,
            "ef_search": 150
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

#### Space Types

JVector supports the following distance metrics:

| Space Type | Description | Use Case |
|------------|-------------|----------|
| `l2` | Euclidean distance (L2 norm) | General purpose, geometric similarity |
| `cosinesimil` | Cosine similarity | Text embeddings, normalized vectors |

**Example with cosine similarity:**

```bash

> curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/text-embeddings" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X PUT "https://llocalhost:9200/text-embeddings" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "settings": {
    "index.knn": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "text_vector": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "cosinesimil",
          "parameters": {
            "m": 16,
            "ef_construction": 100
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

#### Quantization Options

JVector supports Product Quantization (PQ) for memory efficiency:

**Product Quantization (PQ):**

```bash

> curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/pq-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X PUT "https://llocalhost:9200/pq-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "settings": {
    "index.knn": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "vector_field": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "l2",
          "parameters": {
            "m": 16,
            "ef_construction": 100,
            "compression": {
              "type": "product_quantization",
              "subvectors": 96,
              "bits_per_subvector": 8
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

### Indexing Data

#### Single Document Indexing

Index one document at a time:

```bash

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-index/_doc/1" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://llocalhost:9200/my-index/_doc/1" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "vector_field": [0.1, 0.2, 0.3, ..., 0.768],
  "title": "Document title",
  "description": "Document description"
}
'
```

#### Bulk Indexing

For large datasets, use the bulk API for better performance:

```bash

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/_bulk" -H 'Content-Type: application/x-ndjson' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://llocalhost:9200/_bulk" -H 'Content-Type: application/x-ndjson' -d'
```

{"index": {"_index": "my-index", "_id": "1"}}
{"vector_field": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.768], "title": "Doc 1"}
{"index": {"_index": "my-index", "_id": "2"}}
{"vector_field": [0.2, 0.3, ..., 0.769], "title": "Doc 2"}
{"index": {"_index": "my-index", "_id": "3"}}
{"vector_field": [0.3, 0.4, ..., 0.770], "title": "Doc 3"}
'
```

**Optimal Batch Sizes:**
- **Small vectors (< 256 dims)**: 1000-5000 documents per batch
- **Medium vectors (256-768 dims)**: 500-1000 documents per batch
- **Large vectors (> 768 dims)**: 100-500 documents per batch

> **Java Example for Bulk Indexing:**

Reviewer: I think we should remove this example and point to official OpenSearch Java client guide instead: https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-java/blob/main/guides/bulk.md

                    vector[j] = random.nextFloat();
                }
                
                operations.add(BulkOperation.of(op -> op
                    .index(idx -> idx
                        .index("my-index")
                        .id(String.valueOf(docId))
                        .document(new Document(vector, "Document " + docId))
                    )
                ));
            }
            
            BulkResponse response = client.bulk(BulkRequest.of(b -> b
                .operations(operations)
            ));
            
            System.out.println("Batch " + batch + ": " +
                (batchSize - response.errors()) + " succeeded, " +
                response.errors() + " failed");
        }
        
        transport.close();
    }
    
    static class Document {
        public float[] vector_field;
        public String title;
        
        public Document(float[] vector, String title) {
            this.vector_field = vector;
            this.title = title;
        }
    }
}
```

#### Incremental Updates

JVector's unique advantage is efficient incremental updates:

```bash
# Add new documents to existing index

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-index/_doc/10001" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_doc/10001" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "vector_field": [0.5, 0.6, ..., 0.771],
  "title": "New document"
}
'

# Update existing document

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-index/_update/1" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_update/1" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "doc": {
    "vector_field": [0.15, 0.25, ..., 0.768],
    "title": "Updated title"
  }
}
'
```

**Why JVector is Better for Updates:**
- Traditional HNSW requires full graph rebuild on merge
- JVector performs incremental merges, adding new vectors to existing graph
- Result: Significantly faster merge times for large indices (see [benchmarks](../README.md#incremental-merges))

### Force Merge Operations

#### When to Force Merge

Force merge consolidates index segments and optimizes the vector graph:

- After bulk indexing large batches
- Before running performance benchmarks
- Periodically for production indices (e.g., nightly)
- After significant updates or deletes

#### Performing Force Merge

```bash
# Force merge to 1 segment (optimal for search performance)

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-index/_forcemerge?max_num_segments=1"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_forcemerge?max_num_segments=1"
```

```

#### Monitoring Merge Performance

Check merge statistics:

```bash

> curl -X GET "localhost:9200/my-index/_stats/merge?pretty"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X GET "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_stats/merge?pretty"
```

```

Get JVector-specific statistics:

```bash

> curl -X GET "localhost:9200/_nodes/stats/indices/knn?pretty"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X GET "https://localhost:9200/_nodes/stats/indices/knn?pretty"
```

```

**Key Metrics:**
- `knn_graph_merge_time`: Time spent merging vector graphs
- `knn_quantization_training_time`: Time spent on quantization
- `knn_graph_merge_count`: Number of graph merges performed

#### Incremental Merge Advantage

JVector's incremental merge capability provides significant performance improvements over traditional HNSW implementations that require full graph rebuilds on every merge.

**Key Benefits:**
- Merge time grows more linearly with index size
- Faster updates for large indices
- Reduced resource consumption during merges

See [benchmarks](../README.md#incremental-merges) for detailed performance comparisons with graphs showing merge time scaling.

---

## Search Operations

### Basic k-NN Search

#### Simple k-NN Query

Find the k most similar vectors:

```bash

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "my-index",
        "_id": "1",
        "_score": 0.95,
        "_source": {
          "vector_field": [...],
          "title": "Most similar document"
        }
      },
      ...
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Returning Specific Fields

```bash
curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "size": 10,
  "_source": ["title", "description"],
  "query": {
    "knn": {
      "vector_field": {
        "vector": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.768],
        "k": 10
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

### Search Parameters

#### Tuning ef_search

Override the default `ef_search` parameter at query time:

```bash
curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "knn": {
      "vector_field": {
        "vector": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.768],
        "k": 10,
        "ef_search": 200
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

**ef_search Trade-offs:**
- **Lower values (50-100)**: Faster search, lower recall
- **Medium values (100-200)**: Balanced performance
- **Higher values (200-500)**: Better recall, slower search

#### Filtering Results

**Pre-filtering (recommended):**

```bash

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": [
        {
          "knn": {
            "vector_field": {
              "vector": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.768],
              "k": 10
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "filter": [
        {
          "term": {
            "category": "electronics"
          }
        },
        {
          "range": {
            "price": {
              "gte": 100,
              "lte": 500
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
'
```

**Post-filtering:**

```bash

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "knn": {
      "vector_field": {
        "vector": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.768],
        "k": 50
      }
    }
  },
  "post_filter": {
    "term": {
      "category": "electronics"
    }
  }
}
'
```

### Advanced Search

> #### Hybrid Search (Vector + Text)

Reviewer: We need re-published `neural-search` plugin to be installed before https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-jvector/pull/296/changes#r3086406466

To combine vector similarity search with traditional text search, OpenSearch provides a dedicated [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) feature. This feature properly normalizes and combines scores from different query types (vector and lexical) to produce meaningful results.

**Key benefits of Hybrid Search:**
- Proper score normalization across different query types
- Combines semantic (vector) and lexical (keyword) search
- Configurable score combination strategies

Please refer to the [OpenSearch Hybrid Search documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) for setup instructions and examples.

#### Nested Field Search

Search vectors in nested documents:

```bash
# Index mapping with nested field

> curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/nested-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X PUT "https://localhost:9200/nested-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "products": {
        "type": "nested",
        "properties": {
          "product_vector": {
            "type": "knn_vector",
            "dimension": 128,
            "method": {
              "name": "disk_ann",
              "engine": "jvector",
              "space_type": "l2"
            }
          },
          "name": {"type": "text"}
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
'

# Search nested vectors

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/nested-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/nested-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "query": {
    "nested": {
      "path": "products",
      "query": {
        "knn": {
          "products.product_vector": {
            "vector": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.128],
            "k": 5
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

### Performance Monitoring

#### JVector Statistics

Get detailed JVector statistics:

```bash

> curl -X GET "localhost:9200/_nodes/stats/indices/knn?pretty"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X GET "https://localhost:9200/_nodes/stats/indices/knn?pretty"
```

```

**Key Statistics:**
- `knn_query_visited_nodes`: Total nodes visited during searches
- `knn_query_expanded_nodes`: Nodes expanded during searches
- `knn_query_expanded_base_layer_nodes`: Base layer nodes expanded
- `knn_graph_merge_time`: Time spent on graph merges
- `knn_quantization_training_time`: Time spent on quantization

#### Query Profiling

OpenSearch provides built-in query profiling capabilities. For detailed information on profiling queries, see the [OpenSearch Query Profiling documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/api-reference/profile/).

**Example:**

```bash

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

| 16-24 | Medium | Better | Medium | General purpose (recommended) |
| 32-48 | High | Best | Slow | High-recall requirements |

**Recommendation:** Start with `m=16`, increase if recall is insufficient.

#### Choosing ef_construction

The `ef_construction` parameter affects index quality:

| ef_construction | Index Quality | Indexing Speed | Use Case |
|-----------------|---------------|----------------|----------|
| 50-100 | Good | Fast | Development, testing |
| 100-200 | Better | Medium | Production (recommended) |
| 200-500 | Best | Slow | High-quality indices |

**Recommendation:** Use `ef_construction=100` for most cases, increase to 200 for better recall.

#### Quantization Trade-offs

**Product Quantization:**
- Memory: Significant reduction (configurable compression ratio)
- Recall: ~90-95% of original (depends on configuration)
- Speed: Faster for large datasets
- **Use when:** Large datasets with memory constraints

**No Quantization:**
- Memory: Full precision
- Recall: 100% (baseline)
- Speed: Baseline
- **Use when:** Memory is not a constraint, maximum recall required

#### Merge Frequency Tuning

Control how often segments are merged:

```bash

> curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/my-index/_settings" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X PUT "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_settings" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "index": {
    "merge.policy.max_merged_segment": "5gb",
    "merge.scheduler.max_thread_count": 1
  }
}
'
```

**Best Practices:**
- Perform force merge after bulk indexing
- Use incremental merges for continuous updates
- Monitor merge times with JVector statistics

### Query-time Optimization

#### ef_search Parameter Tuning

Tune `ef_search` based on your recall requirements by testing different values:

```bash
# Test with ef_search=50

> curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "knn": {
      "vector_field": {
        "vector": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.768],
        "k": 10,
        "ef_search": 50
      }
    }
  }
}
'

# Test with ef_search=100
# ... (repeat with different values: 150, 200, 300)
```

**Guidelines:**
- Start with `ef_search=100`
- Increase by 50-100 if recall is low
- Monitor latency impact
- Find the sweet spot for your use case

#### Caching Strategies

Enable query result caching:

```bash

> curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/my-index/_settings" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X PUT "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_settings" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

#### DiskANN for Large-Scale Indices

JVector's DiskANN implementation is optimized for RAM-constrained environments:

**Memory Estimation:**
- **Without quantization**: `num_vectors × dimension × 4 bytes × 1.5` (overhead)
- **With 8-bit quantization**: `num_vectors × dimension × 1 byte × 1.5`
- **With PQ (96 subvectors)**: `num_vectors × 96 bytes × 1.5`

**Example:**
- 1M vectors, 768 dims, no quantization: ~4.6 GB
- 1M vectors, 768 dims, 8-bit quantization: ~1.2 GB
- 1M vectors, 768 dims, PQ (96 subvectors): ~144 MB

#### Quantization for Memory Reduction

**When to use Product Quantization:**
- Index size exceeds available RAM
- Cost optimization (smaller instances)
- Acceptable recall trade-off (90-95%)

**Product Quantization is automatically applied by JVector** when the vector count exceeds the minimum batch size threshold. You can configure PQ parameters in the index settings (see [Quantization Options](#quantization-options) section).

#### OS Cache Considerations

JVector leverages OS file system cache:

**Best Practices:**
- Leave 20-30% of RAM for OS cache
- Monitor cache hit rates
- Use SSDs for better performance
- Consider memory-mapped files for large indices

> ### Benchmarking

Reviewer: We should use official OpenSearch Benchmarks here I believe, not a custom made scripts

Reviewer 2: Lets remove the benchmarking section for now as we don't have measurable benchmarks.

Reviewer 3: Done

```bash
cd scripts/jvector_index_and_search

# Install dependencies
pip install -r ../requirements.txt

# Run benchmark with recall measurement
python create_and_test_large_index.py \
  --num-vectors 100000 \
  --dimension 768 \
  --measure-recall \
  --num-recall-queries 50 \
  --csv-output results.csv \
  --plot
```

#### Measuring Recall

Recall measures search quality (% of true neighbors found):

```python
from jvector_utils.recall_measurement import GroundTruthTracker
from jvector_utils.search_operations import test_search_with_stats

# Create tracker
tracker = GroundTruthTracker(
    num_queries=50,
    k=10,
    dimension=768
)

# Track ground truth during indexing
for vector in vectors:
    tracker.update_ground_truth(vector)

# Measure recall
recall = tracker.compute_recall(search_results)
print(f"Recall@10: {recall:.3f}")
```

#### Measuring Latency and Throughput

For comprehensive performance measurements including latency, throughput, and recall, see the [Benchmarking](#benchmarking) section which provides detailed instructions on using the provided benchmarking tools.

#### Performance Comparison

Compare JVector with Lucene HNSW:

```bash
# Create JVector index

> curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/jvector-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X PUT "https://localhost:9200/jvector-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "vector": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {"name": "disk_ann", "engine": "jvector", "space_type": "l2"}
      }
    }
  }
}
'

# Create Lucene index

> curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/lucene-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X PUT "https://localhost:9200/lucene-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
```

{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "vector": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {"name": "hnsw", "engine": "lucene", "space_type": "l2"}
      }
    }
  }
}
'

# Index same data to both
# Run benchmarks and compare
```

**Expected Results:**

> - JVector provides faster search for large datasets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- JVector provides faster search for datasets that exceeds available memory
```

### What is JVector?

OpenSearch JVector Plugin is a pure Java implementation of vector similarity search that enables you to perform approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) search on billions of documents. It leverages the [JVector library](https://github.com/jbellis/jvector) (as referenced in the [source code](../src/main/java/org/opensearch/knn/index/codec/jvector/JVector.java#L21)) to provide high-performance vector search capabilities directly within OpenSearch.

### Why Use JVector?

**High-Level Benefits:**
- **Scalable**: Handle billions of documents across thousands of dimensions using DiskANN
- **Fast**: Blazing fast pure Java implementation with minimal overhead
- **Lightweight**: Self-contained, no native dependencies, builds in seconds

**Technical Advantages:**
- **DiskANN**: Optimized for RAM-constrained environments with minimal overhead
- **Thread Safety**: Concurrent modification and inserts with near-perfect scalability
- **Incremental Merges**: Update large graphs without full rebuilds (massive performance gain)
- **Advanced Quantization**: PQ, BQ, and scalar quantization with refinement during merge
- **SIMD Support**: Hardware-accelerated vector operations

> ### Key Features

Author: Combined the 2 into key features

1. **DiskANN Implementation**: Pure Java ANN search optimized for disk-based operations
2. **Thread-Safe Indexing**: Concurrent writes with excellent scalability
3. **Quantized Index Construction**: Build indices with quantized vectors to save memory
4. **Quantization Refinement**: Refine codebooks during merge for better accuracy
5. **Incremental Merges**: Insert vectors into existing indices without full rebuild
6. **Product Quantization (PQ)**: 64x compression with higher relevance than BQ at 32x
7. **Fused ADC**: Advanced distance computation optimizations
8. **Cassandra Compatibility**: Easy data transfer between Cassandra and OpenSearch

---

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- **Java**: JDK 21 or later (required by OpenSearch 3.x)
- **Memory**: Sufficient RAM for your vector dataset (see [Memory Management](#memory-management))
- **Disk Space**: Adequate storage for indices and vector data

### Installation

#### Installing OpenSearch

If you don't have OpenSearch installed yet, choose one of these options:

**Option A: Download and Install OpenSearch**

```bash

> # Download OpenSearch 3.2.0 (or later)

Author: Done

bin/opensearch-plugin install file://`pwd`/opensearch-jvector-plugin.zip

# Start OpenSearch
bin/opensearch
```

#### Option 2: Docker Installation with JVector Plugin

Create a `Dockerfile`:

```dockerfile
FROM opensearchproject/opensearch:3.2.0

# Remove default KNN plugin
RUN /usr/share/opensearch/bin/opensearch-plugin remove opensearch-neural-search && \
    /usr/share/opensearch/bin/opensearch-plugin remove opensearch-knn

# Install JVector plugin
RUN curl https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/opensearch/plugin/opensearch-jvector-plugin/3.2.0.0/opensearch-jvector-plugin-3.2.0.0.zip -o opensearch-jvector-plugin.zip && \
    /usr/share/opensearch/bin/opensearch-plugin install --batch file://`pwd`/opensearch-jvector-plugin.zip
```

Build and run:

```bash
docker build -t opensearch-jvector .
docker run -p 9200:9200 -p 9600:9600 \
  -e "discovery.type=single-node" \
  -e "OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=YourStrongPassword123!" \
  opensearch-jvector
```

### Verify Installation

Check that the plugin is installed:

```bash

> curl -X GET "localhost:9200/_cat/plugins?v"

Author: Updated the doc

| `ef_construction` | integer | 100 | Size of the dynamic candidate list during index construction. Higher values = better quality but slower indexing |
| `ef_search` | integer | 100 | Size of the dynamic candidate list during search. Can be overridden at query time |

**Example with custom parameters:**

```bash
curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/optimized-index" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "settings": {
    "index.knn": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "vector_field": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "l2",
          "parameters": {
            "m": 32,
            "ef_construction": 200,
            "ef_search": 150
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

#### Space Types

JVector supports multiple distance metrics:

| Space Type | Description | Use Case |
|------------|-------------|----------|
| `l2` | Euclidean distance (L2 norm) | General purpose, geometric similarity |
| `cosinesimil` | Cosine similarity | Text embeddings, normalized vectors |

> | `inner_product` | Inner product (dot product) | When vectors are already normalized |

Author: Rectified the doc

**Example with cosine similarity:**

```bash
curl -X PUT "localhost:9200/text-embeddings" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "settings": {
    "index.knn": true
  },
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "text_vector": {
        "type": "knn_vector",
        "dimension": 768,
        "method": {
          "name": "disk_ann",
          "engine": "jvector",
          "space_type": "cosinesimil",
          "parameters": {
            "m": 16,
            "ef_construction": 100
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
'
```

#### Quantization Options

JVector supports advanced quantization for memory efficiency:

> **Scalar Quantization (8-bit):**

Reviewer 2: I'm also not sure about SQ 8-bit support. Did this API get tested, or auto-generated by Bob?

Author: Rectified the doc

def generate_documents(num_docs, dimension):
    for i in range(num_docs):
        yield {
            "_index": "my-index",
            "_id": i,
            "_source": {
                "vector_field": np.random.rand(dimension).tolist(),
                "title": f"Document {i}"
            }
        }

# Bulk index
success, failed = bulk(
    client,
    generate_documents(10000, 768),
    chunk_size=1000,
    request_timeout=300
)

print(f"Indexed {success} documents, {failed} failed")
```

#### Incremental Updates

JVector's unique advantage is efficient incremental updates:

```bash
# Add new documents to existing index
curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-index/_doc/10001" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "vector_field": [0.5, 0.6, ..., 0.771],
  "title": "New document"
}
'

# Update existing document
curl -X POST "localhost:9200/my-index/_update/1" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "doc": {
    "vector_field": [0.15, 0.25, ..., 0.768],
    "title": "Updated title"
  }
}
'
```

**Why JVector is Better for Updates:**
- Traditional HNSW requires full graph rebuild on merge
- JVector performs incremental merges, adding new vectors to existing graph

> - Result: 10-100x faster merge times for large indices

Reviewer 2: We have to be careful on making such claims. This gives an impression we are a merge efficient system. We don't have the data to back this for OpenSearch.

Author: Updated the doc to remove claims without evidence

- **Medium values (100-200)**: Balanced performance
- **Higher values (200-500)**: Better recall, slower search

#### Filtering Results

**Pre-filtering (recommended):**

```bash
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": [
        {
          "knn": {
            "vector_field": {
              "vector": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.768],
              "k": 10
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "filter": [
        {
          "term": {
            "category": "electronics"
          }
        },
        {
          "range": {
            "price": {
              "gte": 100,
              "lte": 500
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
'
```

**Post-filtering:**

```bash
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "knn": {
      "vector_field": {
        "vector": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.768],
        "k": 50
      }
    }
  },
  "post_filter": {
    "term": {
      "category": "electronics"
    }
  }
}
'
```

### Advanced Search

#### Hybrid Search (Vector + Text)

> To combine vector similarity search with traditional text search, OpenSearch provides a dedicated [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) feature. This feature properly normalizes and combines scores from different query types (vector and lexical) to produce meaningful results.

Reviewer: I would suggest to replace this section with:

```suggestion
To combine vector similarity search with traditional text search, OpenSearch provides a dedicated [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) plugin. It exposes features to properly normalize and combine scores from different query types (vector and lexical) to produce meaningful scoring results.

The  [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) plugin has tight integration with the  [k-NN](https://docs.opensearch.org/latest/vector-search/api/knn/) plugin and does not support `opensearch-jvector` plugin at the moment. There are ongoing efforts to address this gap.
```

WDYT?

            "price": {
              "gte": 100,
              "lte": 500
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
'
```

**Post-filtering:**

```bash
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "knn": {
      "vector_field": {
        "vector": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.768],
        "k": 50
      }
    }
  },
  "post_filter": {
    "term": {
      "category": "electronics"
    }
  }
}
'
```

### Advanced Search

#### Hybrid Search (Vector + Text)

To combine vector similarity search with traditional text search, OpenSearch provides a dedicated [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) plugin. It exposes features to properly normalize and combine scores from different query types (vector and lexical) to produce meaningful scoring results.

The  [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) plugin has tight integration with the  [k-NN](https://docs.opensearch.org/latest/vector-search/api/knn/) plugin and does not support `opensearch-jvector` plugin at the moment. There are ongoing efforts to address this gap.

> **Key benefits of Hybrid Search:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Key benefits of Hybrid Search:**
- Proper score normalization across different query types
- Combines semantic (vector) and lexical (keyword) search
- Configurable score combination strategies

Please refer to the [OpenSearch Hybrid Search documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) for setup instructions and examples.
```

Please remove this part since those benefits won't apply to `opensearch-jvector` at the moment

Reviewer: Is it me or it is still there?

Author: you're right, it didn't apply the changes for some reason. 
I re-did it here https://github.com/MedhaSrivatsa/opensearch-jvector/commit/3d5c6c501461fa2c73b8f120aef4ecff615eca1b

- **Medium values (100-200)**: Balanced performance
- **Higher values (200-500)**: Better recall, slower search

#### Filtering Results

**Pre-filtering (recommended):**

```bash
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": [
        {
          "knn": {
            "vector_field": {
              "vector": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.768],
              "k": 10
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "filter": [
        {
          "term": {
            "category": "electronics"
          }
        },
        {
          "range": {
            "price": {
              "gte": 100,
              "lte": 500
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
'
```

**Post-filtering:**

```bash
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "knn": {
      "vector_field": {
        "vector": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.768],
        "k": 50
      }
    }
  },
  "post_filter": {
    "term": {
      "category": "electronics"
    }
  }
}
'
```

### Advanced Search

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Hybrid Search (Vector + Text)

To combine vector similarity search with traditional text search, OpenSearch provides a dedicated [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) plugin. It exposes features to properly normalize and combine scores from different query types (vector and lexical) to produce meaningful scoring results.

The  [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) plugin has tight integration with the  [k-NN](https://docs.opensearch.org/latest/vector-search/api/knn/) plugin and does not support `opensearch-jvector` plugin at the moment. There are ongoing efforts to address this gap.
```

            "price": {
              "gte": 100,
              "lte": 500
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
'
```

**Post-filtering:**

```bash
curl -X POST "https://localhost:9200/my-index/_search" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "knn": {
      "vector_field": {
        "vector": [0.1, 0.2, ..., 0.768],
        "k": 50
      }
    }
  },
  "post_filter": {
    "term": {
      "category": "electronics"
    }
  }
}
'
```

### Advanced Search

#### Hybrid Search (Vector + Text)

To combine vector similarity search with traditional text search, OpenSearch provides a dedicated [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) plugin. It exposes features to properly normalize and combine scores from different query types (vector and lexical) to produce meaningful scoring results.

The  [Hybrid Search](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) plugin has tight integration with the  [k-NN](https://docs.opensearch.org/latest/vector-search/api/knn/) plugin and does not support `opensearch-jvector` plugin at the moment. There are ongoing efforts to address this gap.

> #### Nested Field Search

Reviewer: ```suggestion

#### Nested Field Search
```

'
```

> **Note:** `ef_search` and `k` are specified at query time, not during index creation. See [Tuning ef_search](#tuning-ef_search) for examples.

Reviewer 2: No need to specify 'not during index creation'. 

It is implied when you say query time.
